There is a global debate revolving around the place women have in the booming technological industry. According to the National Girls Collaborative Project, while the U.S. workforce consists of roughly equal parts men and women, the technological workforce is only 29% women (“Statistics”). Cultural sexism’s insistence that men are better suited to math and science leads to this disparity. As this issue has entered the spotlight, companies, colleges, and even high schools have made efforts to encourage women to pursue careers and education in the fields that are traditionally seen as better suited for males, through programs such as the “All Girls STEM Society”, women centered programing competitions, and scholarships given specifically to women looking to pursue education in STEM (an acronym for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics). Overall, this conflict is about determining what is just in this situation, and while both sides could be interpreted as just by application of different parts of Aristotle’s Ethics, the argument for equality between the sexes is more suited to our modern world that the idea of proportionality.
 This struggle has been especially highlighted in recent months, since a (now former) Google employee released a 10-page manifesto detailing how he believes that “Differences in distributions of traits between men and women may in part explain why we don't have 50 percent representation of women in tech and leadership”. He continues, saying that programs for women in STEM are deceiving them into believing they are equipped to succeed in the workplace. He goes on to say that hiring practices that seek an equal number of women as men are “unfair, divisive, and bad for business” (Conger). This Google employee would more than likely agree with Aristotle’s definition of justice as “the proportional; the unjust is what violates the proportion” (442). A commonly held belief by men in STEM fields, shown by the former Google employee’s stance, is that the reason that women are underrepresented in their fields is that women are inherently not predisposed towards being good at the technical thinking and mathematic calculations required in their jobs. Therefore, they believe that hiring less women than men in these positions is just, because it’s proportional to their erroneous perception of women’s ability to complete the job effectively.
The other side of the argument about equality in hiring practices in the tech industry is that women and men are equally equipped to handle the jobs that the Google manifesto writer believes men are inherently better at. One of the things that the manifesto writer specifically attacks about Google is that their “programs, mentoring, and classes [are] only for people with a certain gender or race, a high priority queue and special treatment for 'diversity' candidates, hiring practices which can effectively lower the bar for 'diversity' candidates by decreasing the false negative rate” are “discriminatory” in his eyes (Conger). However, these programs really exist to implement a different form of injustice that Aristotle discusses, which is “inequality… [in which] the suffering and the action have been unequally distributed; but the judge tries to equalize things” (443). In this case, the programs which encourage women (and other underrepresented groups not discussed here) to become involved with Google exist because women are systemically discouraged from a very early age from pursuing STEM as their passion, despite the studies that show that women and men are equally good at mathematics and science. These programs strive to serve as Aristotle’s judge; to give resources to women and bring them to the same level of opportunity as their male counterparts. Programs geared towards women do not exist to make jobs harder to obtain for men, they exist to help women access jobs that they would not have previously had access to. Rather than discrimination against men, these policies strive to bring women from a disadvantaged position to a position of equality with men, which these men read as discrimination because they feel entitled to the positions given to them. These women are not given positions they don’t deserve, they are given positions they never would have had access to due to the societal and structural barriers between women and successful careers in STEM.
